=Name

portvcs--FreeBSD ports commits history viewer that doesn't require
neither local ports tree nor CVS checkouts.


==Synopsis

 portvcs [options] category/port


==Description

The portvcs utility connects to a remote VCS (Version Control System)
server and grabs the history of commits.

At the time of writing FreeBSD uses CVS (jeez) for its ports collection,
so portvcs (with default configuration) connects to well-known French
CVS server via TCP port 2401 and reads the logs of a particular port.
By default the utility constrains the history to 1 year but that's easy
changeable via <tt>-d</tt> CL (command line) option.

portvcs isn't restricted to FreeBSD ports--it can read logs from
(probably) any CVS server but in that case its usefulness is very
doubtful.

The options are as follows:

--ports-tree-local DIR::    Set this if you have the ports tree
                            directory in an unusual place.

--config-dirs::             List all possible locations for the
                            configuration file. The first found wins.

--config NAME::             The name of the configuration file. If
                            it contains <tt>/</tt> in it, the list from
                            <tt>--config-dirs</tt> is ignored.

-d EXP::                     Passes the EXP to VCS server to set limits
                             for the logs. Usually it's something like
                             '2 months ago<'. For all possible values,
                             read the help for the option <tt>-d</tt> in cvs
                             help for its log command, e.g, type:

                              % info -n '(cvs)log options'

--host STR::                A hostname of a remote server.

--port N::                  A port number (default is 2401) of the
                            remote server.

--user STR::                A user name on the remote server. 

--pass STR::                A password for the user on the remote
                            server.

--cvsroot DIR::             CVSROOT on a remote server.

--ports-tree DIR::          A directory that follows CVSROOT and serves
                            as a ports tree. For example, CVSROOT can
                            be <tt>/home/ncvs</tt> and the ports
                            directory can be <tt>ports</tt> or may be
                            empty at all.

--vcs-version::             Just get version of a remote VCS server and
                            exit.

--cvs-pass-scramble STR::   A handy option for encrypting...
--cvs-pass-descramble STR:: ... and decrypting CVS passwords.

-V::                         Show portvcs version and exit.

-v::                         Be more verbose. You can supply it several
                             times, viz. <tt>-vv</tt> dumps even more
                             debug info.

==Configuration

portvcs looks for its configuration at 3 places at start up.

1. At <tt>PORTVCS_CONF</tt> env variable. (Its format is exactly similar
   to CL options.)

2. At the configuration file. Its default name is <tt>portvcs.yaml</tt>
   and it can be stored in several system directories which are
   observable by <tt>--config--dirs</tt> CL option.

3. At command line.

Higher number levels overrides the values from lower number levels.

The configuration file must be in YAML format. Look into <tt>`gem env
gemdir`/gems/portvcs-x.y.z/etc/</tt> directory for samples.


==Environment

PAGER::           Output from the VCS server goes here.

PORTVCS_CONF::    See Configuration.

==Examples

 % portvcs www/firefox
 % portvcs /usr/ports/www/firefox
 % portvcs www/firefox/files/patch-configure.in

 % pwd
 /usr/ports/x11-toolkits/gtk20
 % portvcs Makefile
 % portvcs files/patch-gtk_gtksignal.h
 % portvcs -d '3 month ago<' .
